README.md, before:

Prototyping
===========

Use this app to make your protype static apps in!

It uses jekyll - https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll - to generate static files generated from templates.

## How to make a new prototype and configuration

Just create a new folder, named eg "app-name", then duplicate the root index.html into it.

Configuration is easy, here's the only bit you need to edit:

<pre>
---
layout: default
title: Prototype app
categories: Format
---
</pre>

Set "layout" to the template file you want to use - the "default" one is just the header and footer from gov.uk. It currently pulls in CSS from the gov.uk CDN. So you can probably leave this alone.

Set "title" to the name of the app you are building - it controls what appears as the main page title.

Set "categories" to be whatever the gov.uk format might be - eg "service".

Then underneath just start shoving in the content of the prototype!

## Starting the app

Just type "jekyll --server" at the command line in the root folder.
(add "&" at the end if you don't want to lock up your command line and are happy killing processes)

Then in your browser navigate to http://localhost:4000/[app-name]/index.html

Bosh!

## Prerequisites & installation

Needs Ruby 1.9.x (not installed by default on OS X 10.7, but GDS dev build includes it)
& jekyll

Follow this process to get up to speed:

1. After installing git and creating github account
http://help.github.com/mac-set-up-git/

2. Update Ruby, easiest way was to follow the "Install Ruby 1.9" instructions on
http://pragmaticstudio.com/blog/2010/9/23/install-rails-ruby-mac

3. then run
sudo gem install jekyll
(see https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/install )

4. then finally
git clone git@github.com:alphagov/prototyping.git prototyping
to get a copy of the prototyping tool.

## Using Sass

If you have Sass installed and want to make use of it you can. '.scss' files will be converted to their '.css' equivalents in the generated site (in the same location). If you don't have Sass installed then at the command line, type 'gem install sass'.

One thing, in order for it to work you need to start each '.scss' file with empty YAML front matter, like this:

    ---
    ---

    #background
      color: black

## Pushing online

We have an instance of Heroku (http://www.heroku.com/) that you can push the prototyping app to, in order to share prototypes externally. It lives at http://govuk-prototyping.herokuapp.com

So you can push to Heroku from your own machine follow these steps:

1. Sign up to Heroku

2. Get invited into our Heroku instance as a contributor

3. Install the Heroku toolbelt from https://toolbelt.herokuapp.com/

4. At the command line:

  <pre>
  $ heroku login
  Enter your Heroku credentials.
  Email: adam@example.com
  Password: 
  Could not find an existing public key.
  Would you like to generate one? [Yn] 
  Generating new SSH public key.
  Uploading ssh public key /Users/adam/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
  </pre>

5. Make sure you're in the repository, then enter "git remote add heroku git@heroku.com:govuk-prototyping.git", which adds the Heroku instance as a remote server for the repo, so you can push to it

6. You can confirm this has worked by using "git remote" then checking you see:

  <pre>
  origin
  heroku
  </pre>

7. Then every time you updated and committed your latest work, you can push to Heroku with "git push heroku master", make sure you have also pushed your changes to github to keep the two origins in sync

8. Finally, you can visit eg http://govuk-prototyping.herokuapp.com/licence-format/ to see your prototype

We might want to think about putting on a password at some point.

Commit message:

Update README to show bundle instructions

README.md, after:

Prototyping
===========

Use this app to make your protype static apps in!

It uses jekyll - https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll - to generate static files generated from templates.

## How to make a new prototype and configuration

Just create a new folder, named eg "app-name", then duplicate the root index.html into it.

Configuration is easy, here's the only bit you need to edit:

<pre>
---
layout: default
title: Prototype app
categories: Format
---
</pre>

Set "layout" to the template file you want to use - the "default" one is just the header and footer from gov.uk. It currently pulls in CSS from the gov.uk CDN. So you can probably leave this alone.

Set "title" to the name of the app you are building - it controls what appears as the main page title.

Set "categories" to be whatever the gov.uk format might be - eg "service".

Then underneath just start shoving in the content of the prototype!

## Starting the app

Just type "jekyll --server" at the command line in the root folder.
(add "&" at the end if you don't want to lock up your command line and are happy killing processes)

Then in your browser navigate to http://localhost:4000/[app-name]/index.html

Bosh!

## Prerequisites & installation

Needs Ruby 1.9.x (not installed by default on OS X 10.7, but GDS dev build includes it)
& jekyll

Follow this process to get up to speed:

1. After installing git and creating github account
http://help.github.com/mac-set-up-git/

2. Update Ruby, easiest way was to follow the "Install Ruby 1.9" instructions on
http://pragmaticstudio.com/blog/2010/9/23/install-rails-ruby-mac

3. Get the code

    git clone git@github.com:alphagov/prototyping.git prototyping

to get a copy of the prototyping tool.

4. Finally install jekyll and dependencies:

    sudo gem install bundle
    bundle install


## Using Sass

Sass is automatically installed with the dependencies. '.scss' files will be converted to their '.css' equivalents in the generated site (in the same location). If you don't have Sass installed then at the command line, type 'gem install sass'.

One thing, in order for it to work you need to start each '.scss' file with empty YAML front matter, like this:

    ---
    ---

    #background
      color: black

## Pushing online

We have an instance of Heroku (http://www.heroku.com/) that you can push the prototyping app to, in order to share prototypes externally. It lives at http://govuk-prototyping.herokuapp.com

So you can push to Heroku from your own machine follow these steps:

1. Sign up to Heroku

2. Get invited into our Heroku instance as a contributor

3. Install the Heroku toolbelt from https://toolbelt.herokuapp.com/

4. At the command line:

  <pre>
  $ heroku login
  Enter your Heroku credentials.
  Email: adam@example.com
  Password: 
  Could not find an existing public key.
  Would you like to generate one? [Yn] 
  Generating new SSH public key.
  Uploading ssh public key /Users/adam/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
  </pre>

5. Make sure you're in the repository, then enter "git remote add heroku git@heroku.com:govuk-prototyping.git", which adds the Heroku instance as a remote server for the repo, so you can push to it

6. You can confirm this has worked by using "git remote" then checking you see:

  <pre>
  origin
  heroku
  </pre>

7. Then every time you updated and committed your latest work, you can push to Heroku with "git push heroku master", make sure you have also pushed your changes to github to keep the two origins in sync

8. Finally, you can visit eg http://govuk-prototyping.herokuapp.com/licence-format/ to see your prototype

We might want to think about putting on a password at some point.
