gsdm/guides-and-toolkits/design-patterns/buttons.md, before:

---
layout: gsdm-design-patterns
title: Buttons
status: draft
css: /gsdm/css/design-patterns/buttons.css
---

Here's how to create buttons in the GOV.UK style.

## Default examples
<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">

  <p>
    <a href="#" class="btn">Primary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="btn-secondary">Secondary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="btn-warning">Warning action</a>
  </p>

  </div>
  <pre><code>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>

Primary actions move users onwards through a transaction. Typically there would only be one of these per screen.

Secondary actions modify the current transaction screen in some way, but don't move users on.

Warning actions are those that are irreversable ('Delete account' for example). Use these sparingly and consider ways of making actions reversable first.

## Launching transactions

The arrow symbol is used for action buttons that initiate a transaction. If the action takes users to a non GOV.UK website they must be informed of this.

<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">
      <p>
        <a href="#" class="btn" title="Get started on the HMRC website">Get started ❯</a> 
         on the HMRC website
      </p>
    </div>
    <pre><code>  &lt;p&gt;
    &lt;a href="#" class="btn" title="Get started on the HMRC website"&gt;Get started ❯&lt;/a&gt; 
    on the HMRC website
  &lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>

## Disabled buttons
<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">
    <p>
      <a class="disabled btn">Primary action</a> 
      <a class="disabled btn-secondary">Secondary action</a> 
      <a class="disabled btn-warning">Warning action</a>
    </p>
  </div>
  <pre><code>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a class="disabled btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a class="disabled btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a class="disabled btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>


## Other sizes

Use the default size wherever possible. More complex interfaces may occasionally require smaller buttons however.

<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">

  <p>
    <a href="#" class="small btn">Primary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="small btn-secondary">Secondary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="small btn-warning">Warning action</a>
  </p>

  <p>
    <a href="#" class="x-small btn">Primary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="x-small btn-secondary">Secondary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="x-small btn-warning">Warning action</a>
  </p>

  </div>
  <pre><code>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a href="#" class="small btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="small btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="small btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a href="#" class="x-small btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="x-small btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="x-small btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>

## Applying button styles to different tags

<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">
    <p>
      <button class="btn">Button tag</button>
      <a class="btn">Link tag</a>
      <input class="btn" type="submit" value="Input button" /> 
    </p>
  </div>
  <pre><code>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>

## Dependencies

The above classes are included when you import 'forms.scss'. To create your own button colours you'll need to import 'buttons.scss' and use it as follows:

    .btn-class{
      @include button($colour);
    }

Commit message:

Add link to mixin on GitHub

gsdm/guides-and-toolkits/design-patterns/buttons.md, after:

---
layout: gsdm-design-patterns
title: Buttons
status: draft
css: /gsdm/css/design-patterns/buttons.css
---

Here's how to create buttons in the GOV.UK style.

[The Sass mixin for making these is available here](https://github.com/alphagov/prototyping/blob/master/_includes/stylesheets/design-patterns/_buttons.scss).

## Default examples
<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">

  <p>
    <a href="#" class="btn">Primary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="btn-secondary">Secondary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="btn-warning">Warning action</a>
  </p>

  </div>
  <pre><code>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>

Primary actions move users onwards through a transaction. Typically there would only be one of these per screen.

Secondary actions modify the current transaction screen in some way, but don't move users on.

Warning actions are those that are irreversable ('Delete account' for example). Use these sparingly and consider ways of making actions reversable first.

## Launching transactions

The arrow symbol is used for action buttons that initiate a transaction. If the action takes users to a non GOV.UK website they must be informed of this.

<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">
      <p>
        <a href="#" class="btn" title="Get started on the HMRC website">Get started ❯</a> 
         on the HMRC website
      </p>
    </div>
    <pre><code>  &lt;p&gt;
    &lt;a href="#" class="btn" title="Get started on the HMRC website"&gt;Get started ❯&lt;/a&gt; 
    on the HMRC website
  &lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>

## Disabled buttons
<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">
    <p>
      <a class="disabled btn">Primary action</a> 
      <a class="disabled btn-secondary">Secondary action</a> 
      <a class="disabled btn-warning">Warning action</a>
    </p>
  </div>
  <pre><code>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a class="disabled btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a class="disabled btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a class="disabled btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>


## Other sizes

Use the default size wherever possible. More complex interfaces may occasionally require smaller buttons however.

<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">

  <p>
    <a href="#" class="small btn">Primary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="small btn-secondary">Secondary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="small btn-warning">Warning action</a>
  </p>

  <p>
    <a href="#" class="x-small btn">Primary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="x-small btn-secondary">Secondary action</a> 
    <a href="#" class="x-small btn-warning">Warning action</a>
  </p>

  </div>
  <pre><code>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a href="#" class="small btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="small btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="small btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a href="#" class="x-small btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="x-small btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="x-small btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>

## Applying button styles to different tags

<div class="pattern-example">
  <div class="inner">
    <p>
      <button class="btn">Button tag</button>
      <a class="btn">Link tag</a>
      <input class="btn" type="submit" value="Input button" /> 
    </p>
  </div>
  <pre><code>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn"&gt;Primary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn-secondary"&gt;Secondary action&lt;/a&gt; 
  &lt;a href="#" class="btn-warning"&gt;Warning action&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</code></pre>
</div>

## Dependencies

The above classes are included when you import 'forms.scss'. To create your own button colours you'll need to import 'buttons.scss' and use it as follows:

    .btn-class{
      @include button($colour);
    }
